>> Here is another person
who's existing in a dream,
taking us into a dream world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Evolution is not the straight
path I had once thought.
>> I mean, we're just walking
around in some kind of fog.
I think we're all in a trance.
>> As a writer, I've experienced
how art opens doors to other
dimensions of reality.
It calls us forth to
something mysterious
beyond the veil of our
waking consciousness
to information
streams that exist
outside of human-based time.
The beauty of art frees us
from the noise of the everyday
and helps us feel our way
through the interwoven
matrixes of the multiverse.
Lately, I've been guided by
uncanny coincidences that
seem to form a universal
dialogue, a tapestry
rich with patterns and symbols--
the experience of living
in alignment with nature.
This is what I've come
to know as synchronicity.
>> People are
talking in symbols.
>> Visionary
artist, philosopher,
and one of the leaders of
the Earth Day movement,
José Argüelles, studied the
Mayan calendar extensively
and wrote about a coming age
of unprecedented peace in which
the very act of existing will
be seen as a creative act.
In this new era,
time will not be
something we quantify with
clocks, computers, and money.
Instead of saying time is money,
the people of this new era
will say time is art.
>> Dreams.
[LIGHT MUSIC]
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
>> I was once a confused and
lonely teenager who clung
to a fundamental
cold-hearted truth--
that we were born
alone and died alone.
I accepted this scientific truth
as a kind of death sentence,
and anger rose in my voice
when I discussed matters
of life and death with people
who believed in God, especially
if that God was one that
cared about any of us.
In a world filled with
terrible wars and violence,
how could anyone find
evidence for that?
I thought those
who believed were
ignorant and scared
and unable to face
the reality of the situation.
Then, something happened
that changed everything.
Thank you.
Thank you so much
for having me here.
>> Oh, it's really
nice to meet you.
>> It's great to meet you.
I've really admired your
work, and the chance
to talk to you about some
of this crazy stuff that's
been going on is
really important,
and I haven't had a chance
to talk to anyone about it.
I feel like I was one way,
and now I'm another way.
I didn't believe in God.
I didn't believe in some
kind of spiritual world.
And all that's kind of just
gotten shook up recently.
My aunt, who I was very
close with, had lung cancer.
And we were told that she
had months still to live.
So we were there to
visit, and then we
were making plans to come back.
She wasn't doing well.
She was in and out
of consciousness.
The next morning, we
were still like, OK,
let's get on our flight.
It's tough time, but
we're going to be back.
On the way to the
airport, I was just,
we have to go back to the
hospital, like right now.
And--
>> You felt that?
>> I felt it-- something.
And I don't know--
it was wild.
We were in the cab,
and we're like--
hospital.
My mother was like,
what are you doing?
We're going to miss the flight.
I was like, doesn't matter.
Let's get to the hospital.
We get to the hospital,
and we go up to the floor.
And I'll never forget.
The nurses were
running towards us,
like, we were just
calling you at the hotel.
And we were calling you,
and they said you left,
and that was that, and they
didn't have our cell phone
numbers.
And they were like,
she's dying right now.
And I remember just heading
into that room being like,
I didn't want to go.
But yet I was there, and I knew
we were supposed to be there.
And so it was something
I never expected.
It was this feeling
that I can't--
this is what's
been shaking me up,
because I don't
know what it was,
but something
happened in that room.
There was this energy that--
that's the only
word I could think
of what it was, because I don't
want to say what deep down,
it felt like, like
her soul or something.
But it's this blast of
energy that literally
ricocheted around the room.
And you could feel
it in your body,
and almost like I felt like
my hair was blowing around.
(ECHOING) You could feel it in
your body, and almost like I
felt like my hair
was blowing around.
One of the nurses who had
been giving us our space
ran into the room, and
she opened the window.
And I was just so relieved
that she did that.
But while I was relieved, I
was like, what are you doing?
You're crazy.
This isn't what-- there's
nothing to be relieved about.
She's pa-- it's over.
Or merely relief that
she's out of pain,
but I was relieved that the
window was open to let her out.
The old me would never
use a word like spirit.
This feeling of her
still being around
has been really powerful.
And there's patterns
that go with it.
I'll see 11:11 on the clock,
or 9:11 is another one I see.
>> Wow.
>> And 22s, and 33s.
And seeing so many of them,
I started researching.
It's really wild, because my
aunt's birthday is November 22,
1955.
So it's 11/22/55.
And those numbers are--
they already just speak to
a certain weird pattern.
But then finding out about
master numbers, and other kind
of things, like 11s, and
22s, and then this number 33.
And so I'm like, what
does this number mean?
It's attached to a
lot of Masonic stuff.
The number 33 plays out in
their architecture a lot.
The 33 latitude is
important historically
for a lot of different things.
The Iraq War took place
there, and the most people
who have ever been electrocuted
on the electric chair
is in Phoenix, Arizona
on the 33 latitude.
There's just all these--
Egypt, and the pyramids, all
this stuff that's gone on.
And I felt like I started to
feel like there was something
there.
And I was like, what if there's
this huge superstructure
of meaning that I've
somehow wandered into?
And there's signs,
and there's things--
>> Well, I believe
there is meaning.
>> Like underneath things
that we're not totally aware
of, and this was the cracking
open of that a little bit.
It was like there was
the world as I knew it,
and then there's this world
of a different kind of order.
>> That's what creates
these synchronicities.
>> The order.
That there's a field of
meaning of various types.
It's related to the
idea of archetypes.
Jung's archetypes, you know?
That that's a field of meaning.
There's a field of
meaning of fear.
People say, like, 9/11.
That's the number we
call for emergency,
and that's when 9/11 happened.
It's in a particular field of
meaning, of maybe disaster.
The whole world had a
collective precognitive sense,
like you did, that something
was going to happen.
It was registered on machines.
Just think how we are affected
by the field of consciousness.
>> Or what I've been driving
myself crazy with is, like,
is there a way to get
a clearer picture?
>> Something is at work beyond
what we understand that is
creating or affecting
the universe around us,
especially if we are operating
in alignment with that part
of ourselves so that fortuitous
synchronicities happen.
It's a matter of practice, and
actually just paying attention.
All of us are picking up
information all the time.
This information
is there for you.
Your aunt was there for you.
That could be her
signal to you, you know?
>> When I have a synchronicity
around thinking about her,
or just--
>> She may be saying to,
Jennifer, pay attention,
and then show you this 11, or
22, or 33, or whatever it is.
And that's a signal to you.
And so I would just
pay attention, and then
see if some information
comes in then.
And write it down, because
you'll be surprised.
You're going to forget.
>> It's kind of--
because there's o much.
Every moment is full of
so many magical things
if you actually pay attention.
Maybe synchronicity is an
open door, but it is up to us
to walk through it.
(ECHOING) It's up to
us to walk through it.
It reminds me of José Argüelles
saying that in this coming
time, we'll all be channelers,
we'll all be artists.
It's this connected
current that we're somehow
getting information from.
(ECHOING) Connected
current that we're somehow
getting information from.
The 9-to-5 rat race
matrix was so isolating,
I had to walk out
of my corporate job.
All the ground I'd known
was gone from beneath me.
I felt raw, with no
defenses against the cruel,
calculating coldness of
the world all around me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I wondered if I
was going insane,
as a web of synchronicity
seemed to reveal me
as a central player
in a worldwide drama
of reality-shifting
transformation.
As I read more, I
realized that my story
fit into an archetype
that was shared by others.
Maybe it was a near-death
experience, or an LSD trip,
or falling in love that
broke open their head.
Maybe it was a mystical
experience, premonitions,
strange dreams, UFO sightings,
or in my case, the death
of a loved one
witnessed up close.
[CRYSTAL BOWL HUMMING]
"From an awakened perspective,
all pain and confusion
are merely the play of wisdom.
And that play has a
recognizable pattern
called the mandala principle.
If one can identify difficult
situations as mandalas,
then transformation of painful
circumstances is possible."
Judith Simmer Brown.
[LIGHT MUSIC]
>> So synchronicity is
having an inward experience,
and then that connecting
with an outward experience,
and that you see these
reoccurring patterns.
But the idea between
self and other,
that's a mandala right there,
is the inside and the outside.
And it's a porous boundary,
and it can dissolve.
So the more that you can connect
with the outer space, which
isn't really outer, you
extend out the sense of self,
then there's going to be
more interconnection between
your environment and yourself.
>> It's like super porous.
And that's what makes me--
like I'm freaking out a little
bit, because like you say,
it exists and it doesn't exist.
And I don't know, I just
need some help framing it.
And I'm also trying
to write about it,
and it feels like you
found the perfect--
like the mandala is the way
to describe the experience.
But it's like--
I don't know, I'm
still grasping at it.
And I'm looking for people who
can be a guide of some sort.
>> I don't know that this
worldview is fully integrated
on all levels all the time, but
I really believe in a mesh net
of being, and that we're
all sentiences that are part
of the same interconnected web.
That we're one organism, that
planet Earth is the larger
mandala, and that
we're all having
experiences within the
much larger experience.
We have family, community,
friends, larger mandala
of our city, expanding
out to our country--
but that it's an
arbitrary boundary, right?
But then to the world.
And so these things are
all interconnecting.
And we know that this
idea of separation
that we've been raised
with, really living
in the age of separation,
and Charles Eisenstein just
writes so beautifully
about that.
But we're rediscovering right
now that we're interconnected.
So perhaps you're having
a personal journey that
is about this larger journey
that we're all undertaking,
discovering our
inner connection,
and yours is in the
language of synchronicity,
and Jennifer Palmer's experience
at the center of the universe
experiencing synchronicity.
>> I just need to find
something like a practice,
or something to ground me
so I can be calm in it.
I don't know, because it just
feels like things don't make
sense the way they used to.
[CHUCKLES]
>> I think it's just being
present with it every moment.
And it's not something
that you're ever
going to completely escape.
It's just not
being afraid of it.
Being able to be vulnerable.
I think vulnerability
is really important,
because it's the things that
we're scared of that teach us,
and that allow us to grow.
>> What's supposed
to happen feels gone.
Like my linear path, like
now I'm going to do this,
I don't really know what
any of that is anymore.
So it's kind of
wild, because a lot
of what I've been
realizing, it's not
about becoming less sensitive
to these invisible frequencies
and even calling it the
matrix, but to realize
that it's about being
sensitive to it,
but also being aware that
it's not bad, necessarily.
That it can be used, like you
were saying, to transmit light,
and to--
and I just-- is there a--
I don't know.
I feel like there has to be,
though, a safe place, though,
with that sensitivity.
And that seems to be
part of your journey.
And tell me more about what
I can do to feel safer.
>> Yeah, I think if anyone's
having difficulty with what
they're being sensitive, or
just increasing sensitivity,
one is knowing that that's OK,
and you're probably feeling
things that are
completely normal.
And you can ask for
help if, like, hey,
I don't know what's going on.
I'm feeling really frenetic.
>> Is that like a prayer?
Do you think of that as?
Like when you say ask for help.
Because I've been trying
to pray more and more,
and that feels
good, but it feels
like it only works if it's
clear, like if it's my--
when I'm in this
really sensitive state,
things start to get
jumbled up, and I
feel like there's lots
of clutter in my brain.
I don't know if it's
the same for you,
but it's like, [INAUDIBLE],,
things going on.
So even to get--
I don't know which I should
do first, meditate then pray,
or the prayer is to
ask for that clarity.
I mean, just-- you get lost,
or I get lost on how to begin.
>> Prayer is a technology.
And we can use the words
intention or awareness
that have a little bit
less religious connotation
or baggage for people.
But if you're praying for, or
have the intention of healing
something specific, you can
track within that journey,
OK, this symbol
keeps showing up.
What is that showing me?
And it's a way of looking
at the world similar
as you would your
psyche, or dream space.
And in my opinion, those aren't
separate the way our culture
separates them out.
And if you can begin to
read the world around you
as a lucid dream, this is only--
some people would say this is
only electromagnetic illusion.
>> A hologram.
>> This whole thing is a
hologram that we're projecting
our consciousness into to
play, or create, or learn.
>> That's what
synchronicities could be.
That's what I keep
seeing things, patterns,
symbols along the way
of this healing journey.
I see owls everywhere, and
meeting up with you today,
you're wearing
these owl earrings.
And I feel like there's one
way of just saying, OK, it
means wisdom, it means this.
But it's more-- for me, it's
not so much what it could mean,
but that it's just appearing,
the pattern itself.
>> I think trusting yourself
that you're experiencing
the right things for you, and
trusting that you understand
what things mean for you.
And even if that seems
weird, that's OK.
And you probably know exactly
what's going on for you.
And know that there are
a lot of people going
through this journey
together, and we're all
really happy to help
each other and share.
I think we're going
through a transition
to a collective awareness
that American culture has
lost a lot.
Connection with our neighbors,
connection with the planet,
connection with cultures in
the middle of the Amazon.
And as we start to
feel each other,
we can help each other out.
And like, hey, I have
these resources here.
Oh, I'm starting to understand
that this isn't quite healthy,
this infrastructure we've built
to produce this one thing.
Now I have the consciousness.
OK, how can I adjust
my relationship
with resources of ideas,
invention, materials, industry,
to do something
that's more healthy
for the whole collective?
I think it's a current that's
running through everything.
And if you bring your
presence to that,
it doesn't have to be dirty,
or something you need more of.
You just recognize, oh,
this is a form of energy
that is part of my being,
part of the collective being.
>> I feel like you've been
just such a huge help to me,
inspiring me the
way you're living,
because you've taken such
an active role in your life,
in your being.
And you're reprogramming, and
deprogramming, opening up,
and just being open
to how that goes.
And just what you
said, giving me
permission to believe
what I believe,
and to interpret it my
way, but knowing that--
hearing that from
someone else is the key.
So if you're just by
yourself, and saying I'm
going to interpret it
my way, it's scary.
Or it was for me, because
it's like, I'm crazy.
But I have someone else who's
happy and driving telling me
that, then it's powerful.
Meeting other people also on
this journey is so reassuring.
But as I searched for new
words to explain old ideas,
and the more I investigated
the signs and wonders tucked
into the everyday all around
me, the more started to pop up.
It seemed to be an
endless feedback loop.
Was it possible that my
own awareness was somehow
connected to these
signs and symbols,
or had all my hours of intense
lonely contemplation finally
caught up with me and
messed with my mind?
[EXHALATION]
"In all chaos,
there is a cosmos.
In all disorder,
a secret order."
Carl Jung.
[WIND BLOWING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Been experiencing a
lot of synchronicities,
which I told you about.
But I've also been experiencing
deja vu, and weird feelings
of being in a place that I
had never been in before,
but I've been
there, I feel like.
And I'm experiencing
time now as non-linear.
Like spiraling nature
of the labyrinth,
and the kind of geometry in
there seems to speak to that.
And it's just like, time is
much more pliable, and something
we can do something with,
as opposed to something
that does something to us.
>> I think our old
conception of circular time,
that you almost perceive
the year as a circle,
is kind of incorrect.
As the Earth is
moving around the sun,
the sun is actually
traveling around the center
of the galaxy.
And so you have
this-- you don't ever
come back to the same
point that you were at.
You've actually moved
thousands and thousands, if not
millions of miles with
each passing year.
The labyrinth itself has
different numbers or patterns
found within the year.
There's like a 13-pointed star
for the 13 moons, or months,
which is where--
granted, we have 12
months now, but there's
13 full moons in a year.
You have these underlying
patterns and structures
to space and time, and I think
that you can explore those
through geometry.
You could explore
those through--
really, I've enjoyed studying
what's called the quadrivium.
And it breaks down number into
like an easy-to-understand way
to learn.
>> It's wild, because this is
what José Argüelles wrote about
in his books.
The 13 moons within a year,
and the idea of our calendar
being out of sync
with universal time.
He said that a sharp increase
in reports of synchronicities
is one of the chief
indications that we're
moving towards a new
understanding of time.
Instead of forcing
things, we'll let
events happen when they
are ready to unfold,
led by a greater natural
order beyond our minds.
This new relationship with
time seemed definitely linked
to the profound transformations
taking place in my life.
Even in the middle of one of
the largest cities in the world,
I was reconnecting with a
sense of something ancient--
a being within
nature nourishing me,
calling to me to listen deeper.
>> I've had a strong interest
in things relating to the mind
and psychology, more
on the Jungian side,
and then tracing that line back
through alchemy and the mystery
traditions.
I've always been
interested in art,
and one of my favorite
books is by Manly P. Hall,
and it's called "The Secret
Teachings of all Ages."
More well-known artists or
authors like Joseph Campbell
explore how symbols are used
across different cultures.
And of course, Carl Jung's work.
And although he's credited
with synchronicity,
I feel like that was just a side
thing to his overall research,
that he really dealt with
symbols occurring in art.
When you take it
from the reading
about this type of stuff
into experience practice,
I've been able to blend
this type of knowledge
into what I do.
I try to keep it
grounded in logic,
but I think there's something
logical and very fascinating
about the artwork that's
been done by groups of people
exploring imaginary realms.
You begin to see the structure,
or framework, or mapping to it.
There are realms within us.
There's worlds within our minds.
To then do this
discipline, study within,
is really my vehicle
that I found to explore.
We all have a spark inside
us, but sometimes it's
buried under a lot of stuff.
And that really, our job
oftentimes is to just dig.
And through that process
of digging and digging
and digging, and sometimes it
isn't going to be overnight.
It's going to be years,
or perhaps even someone's
whole life before they
really get to that divine
spark within them.
>> That makes sense to me,
because it feels like I'm being
set up for a longer journey.
Already been on one.
And for me, it's a
lot of synchronicities
that seem to be compelling me.
>> On the more
mystical level, I think
everything's synchronized.
I think everything is connected.
And we all have a common
ancestry, be it as humans,
or being as made of
the same, you know--
>> Star stuff?
>> Star stuff.
So I think overall,
I think there
is something positive
to synchronicity,
that it helps people
see that connection.
I almost think you
get a little kick
a dopamine or something when--
like, oh, that felt good,
that that connected,
and it's exciting.
>> For me, it's still opening
up some of the ideas that
you're talking about, of this
underlying order that I'm only
now discovering, as
opposed to just chaos,
which is the other way
I was living my life,
where it was like,
there's science and logic,
but just everything just happens
the way it's going to happen,
and there's no essential order.
[CRYSTAL BOWL HUMMING]
The idea of time actually being
art struck a powerful chord.
It was a simple way of
conveying a big idea.
If time could be measured
by what we create together,
instead of what
we charge for rent
or make according to our
salary per hour and per month,
then it's possible
the entire world could
shift from revolving
around money
to revolving around creation.
>> And so many of
us are so lonely.
It's beautiful that
we can come together
under a teepee
like this together,
with so many kind hearts
aligned in the same direction.
>> The science delusion is the
belief that science already
understands the nature
of reality in principle,
leaving only the
details to be filled in.
And this is a very widespread
belief in our society.
In fact, it's the
pre-installed belief system
of most educated people.
The educational system
gives that impression.
So what could possibly
be wrong with it?
Most people who
believe in science,
and who believe in the
scientific worldview--
which is, in effect, the
philosophy of materialism--
don't actually
realize that they're
believing in a worldview.
They think other
people have beliefs,
but they know the truth.
And this is one of the
problems in dealing with people
who have been
thoroughly indoctrinated
with a materialist worldview.
They just don't
realize it's actually
a worldview, or a
philosophy of nature.
I'm not anti-science.
I'm pro-science.
I think we need more
science, not less.
But I think the science we have
should be more scientific, not
less scientific.
More rational,
not less rational.
As my friend Terence
McKenna used to say,
modern science is
based on the principle,
give us one free miracle,
and we'll explain the rest.
[CHUCKLING]
And the one free miracle is the
appearance of all the matter
and energy in the
universe, and all the laws
that govern it from nowhere
in a single instant.
It's this assumption that
evolution is just blind chance,
that the entire cosmos is
headed nowhere, that there's
no purpose in evolution.
It's not something
that scientists have
proved by rigorous experiments.
It's simply an assumption,
like these other assumptions.
And the reason for it
being an assumption
is that nature's mechanical.
Nature's a machine.
The universe is a machine.
Machines have no
purpose of their own.
They serve our purposes,
but by themselves, they
have no purpose.
Therefore, the universe has no
purpose because it's a machine.
Therefore, evolution
is purposeless.
That's all there is to
it in this argument.
I don't think it's any
coincidence that depression's
a characteristic modern
disease when our worldview is
essentially deeply depressing.
>> There is certainly evidence
that consciousness continues
on after its physical body dies.
It challenges us,
I think, to take
a different view of reality.
One that I believe is
consistent with quantum theory.
Quantum theory has shown
that the physical world
is a creation of consciousness.
That consciousness
is what is primary,
and the physical
world grows out of it.
The consciousness
that each of us
seems to be linked to
the consciousnesses
that everyone has.
It may in fact be that we are
all part of the same things--
that we are all
individual streams
of thought, but that we're all
coming from one great mind.
And if so, then I would say
that it's worth keeping in mind
that we are certainly
all in this together.
>> Psyche, without
even knowing it,
moves around corners
in time and space.
And Jung recognized that in
the moment of their greatest
creative expression,
the artist is
an unconscious vehicle for
something beyond themselves.
And at these times, their pen
carries the unspoken voice
of the collective
whole of their culture.
And like a medium or
an indigenous healer,
what comes through them at
this time can be a curative.
Healing comes from
hearing the unspoken thing
that our culture needs to hear.
So this gives you the Milk Hill
region with the white horses
that are quite common.
That one's probably not ancient.
It's probably only a
couple hundred years old.
But that gives you
the lay of the land.
That's a helicopter down there,
just to give you the scope.
You see that little blue dot?
That's a helicopter.
So you see-- one of the
things in crop circles
that you experience is
electromagnetic effects.
And people have
been reporting this.
In chapter two of the book,
I get into the history,
but in chapter one, I
talk about the history
of things like this, with three
or four days old, three or four
people had been in it, and
that energy was so palpable.
I would walk the lay,
following the lay,
and I became
profoundly disoriented
and did not know
where my car was.
And I'm the person who,
after 50 Dead shows,
takes everybody and
gets them their car, so.
I'd like you to think about,
what are your preconceptions?
What do you bring
into this moment
of thinking about crop circles?
There's three categories that
generally people talk about
with agency.
Alien, spiritual, and
something to do with what
we are doing to the Earth.
So Jung says "the circle
is a symbol of the self.
It expresses the totality of
the psyche in all its aspects.
The unconscious, the
conscious, the whole of nature.
The self is the part
of us that feels
the universal in the
personal, and the personal
in the universal.
Through the ritual action
of drawing the circle,
attention and
interest are led back
to the inner sacred
precinct, which
is the source and
goal of the psyche,
and contains the unity of
life and consciousness.
The profoundest
problem," says Jung,
"afflicting the human
psyche is an imbalance
which favors masculine
principles and archetypes
over feminine ones."
Our separation today from
the feminine, the mother--
"mater" in Latin-- is expressed
compulsively and unconsciously
as materialism.
We're wrapped up and lost in a
narcissistic self-involvement.
That is how you become a culture
that destroys your own planet.
We are at the end of
the masculine era.
As we move to venerate nature
and the sacred feminine,
we give birth to the new story
as we open the rational mind
to the irrational mystery of
the unity of spirit and matter.
I believe that crop circles are
meant to be just as they are--
a mystery that deflates the
ego, yet evokes feeling.
Their artistry
tells us something
about their character.
They're creative.
They create in sacred geometry.
I believe that the most
beautiful, interesting part
about this agent is that
they seem to care about us.
[SOMBER MUSIC]
>> Being in a power place,
I kind of feel spaced out,
and headaches, and other things.
And it feels almost like a
message that I'm being sent.
And I can't even
imagine what it would
be like to be in a crop
circle, from what you told me,
and your story about not
knowing where your car was
after being in a crop circle.
So what do you think
the message is?
Is it a download that you
get right away sometimes, or?
>> Well, part of the message
is that the Earth is powerful,
and that there's
powerful places.
Some people go into crop
circles, or whatever,
and they get sick because
they've gone into it
too early after it was formed.
And I think that
we're coming back
to a conscious appreciation
of these mysterious qualities
of our world, and one
of them is that there's
these powerful spots that have
powerful energies on them,
and it's not all
rainbows and sunshine.
Some of it is
difficult, and painful,
and we maybe shouldn't be there,
or we maybe shouldn't be there
at that moment.
Part of the message
of all synchronicities
is that synchronicity
is happening.
And that there's part of
the world cares about us,
and that we're consciously
realizing that there is
a heart-shaped world that we
live in, and that's reality,
and not this myth, this sick
myth that our culture lives
in, which is that
we're all just--
there's no spirituality.
There's nothing
beyond the physical--
>> We're all alone.
We're separated from each other.
>> We're all alone, exactly.
That's just-- that's the
lostness of our culture.
We live in this mysterious
Earth that is powerful,
and place affects us, and that's
a victory to even accept that.
>> Yeah.
Often, when you're talking
about synchronicity,
which resonates so strongly
with me and my experience,
that it really is
the experience.
It's the feeling.
And I think it's about being in
our bodies and not in our heads
with it.
>> Mm-hmm.
There's no such thing as a
synchronicity without feeling,
whether that feeling is
conscious or unconscious.
The classic Jungian
story is Jung works
with a patient who is very
caught in the rational mind.
And she's working with
her, and working with her,
and working with the dreams.
And finally, the psychological
relationship got to this point
where it was ready
to break through,
and she brought the dream
of this golden scarab.
And as they're talking
about this dream,
Jung hears a tap at the window.
And he opens the
window, and in flies
the scarab beetle, which he
holds in his hand, and he says,
here's your scarab.
So--
>> She had to open
up to something else,
like something more.
>> Yeah.
It can just hit you so hard
that you're just like, I get it.
She got it.
That broke through
her rational armor,
and she was like,
oh my goodness.
There is a healing
potential there as well.
It just might not be the
healing that we want.
Wisdom is gross.
It's bitter.
Even on our best moment,
shadows on some of the present,
or there's us that involves
the truth that this is, yes,
so perfect and imperfect.
>> It's so hard for me to feel
that sense of belongingness,
and that sense of
already being perfect.
And it's hard to feel a sense
of agency in this world.
But that's, I guess, a matter of
now I'm shifting my awareness.
As you sit around
watching the news,
it's easy to feel like
there's nothing you can do.
But then when you go
out and find community,
I'm starting to
realize that there's
people everywhere gathering
for peace, and eating together.
>> Yeah.
>> All synchronicities,
for Jung,
tended to be moving the
psyche towards wholeness,
towards an integration
of what was unconscious,
to integrate it
into consciousness.
And so it's moving us
into a more whole state,
psychically, where conscious
and unconscious come together.
And in that sense, there seems
to be a telos, a purpose, that
is informing the synchronicity.
When experiencing
synchronicities,
as I've been experiencing
for the past couple of years,
it just feels like I either
make too much out of them
meaning-wise, and just subscribe
all this meaning to them,
and search so deeply for
how it applies to my life,
or else I feel like I
shouldn't pay attention at all,
and it's just
meaningless craziness.
So I'm really sure
what to make of it.
>> Some synchronicities that
are especially important to one,
you can have a personal, oh,
almost there like a treasure
that you've been given.
Those sometimes
might be something
that one might want
to keep to oneself,
because Rudolf
Steiner said once,
we must know when
to keep silent about
our spiritual experiences.
And it can be that some
synchronicities can
be difficult to convey
to anybody else,
partly because they're
so complicated.
There's so many details that go
into making the meaning that it
has such power for you.
Plus, you're bringing to the
synchronicity things that
are personally
significant to you
that you might not
even be conscious
of as to why this
particular synchronicity has
so much weight for you
spiritually, personally.
And that can be difficult
to convey to somebody else.
>> So this sense that I have
sometimes when I'm experiencing
a really strong string
of synchronicities,
that I'm almost like
the star of a movie.
And it feels super
egotistical, but it really
feels like that's
what's happening.
Would you think that's on the
side where I need to unpack
some ego, or is that--
>> Not necessarily.
Not necessarily.
If you can recognize
that in some way,
you are the center of
the cosmos's attention.
You are the star of a movie.
But there are many other
movies happening as well.
And there's many other
stars in this cosmos.
Billions and billions of them.
>> Everyone's the star.
>> Yeah.
And there's something about
the universe's extraordinary--
I don't know.
I would view it as not only
overwhelmingly powerful
intelligence, and capacity
to be orchestrating events
in ways that are meaningful
to so many people at once,
that there's a way
in which there can
be many, many stars,
many, many movies,
many individual solar heroes
are undergoing their journey
at once.
And that's just part
of the miracle of life.
And opening up to that allows
you to hold your own importance
as a center of
meaning, while not
disparaging the centered
meaning of everybody else.
The whole nature
of synchronicity
is one in which archetypes
tend to be present.
The archetypes are
the formal patterns
that shape the
coincidence of events.
And yes, I think there is
something to particularly,
I think, archetypal
astrological perspectives
give us a handle on
being able to see
what are our particular
archetypal complexes where we
may be distorting
reality in a certain way,
being in a possession state
of that particular complex,
so that we can see ourselves
from outside in both shadow
form and light form.
And also, at what times.
Like, when is this
one most likely to be
activated, constellated?
So yeah, it's a very helpful
gift from the cosmos.
Be aware of the fact that you
can either use this knowledge
to attempt to control life,
or to participate more
intelligently in life.
And those are two
different attitudes
towards the same information.
And that's again where a lot
of self-awareness comes in.
Self-awareness and then
working on oneself.
The more one goes
through deep journeys,
and inner transformation-- and
it could be shamanic sacred
medicine rituals, it
could be Jungian analysis,
it could be meditation,
holotropic breath work,
whatever is one's practice
for self-exploration--
these allow us to become more
and more able to basically
trust the cosmos, trust
life, trust the universe,
because we've been
through enough times
where we've been
pushed down, pushed
through the dark
night of the soul,
and discovered
there's more to it.
Trusting, less anxious
engagement with life.
>> You know, Ram Dass
tells this story--
I think it's Ram
Dass-- tells this story
about going to a dinner party.
And there's this feast of people
all sitting together, having
conversation.
But the under-conversation
is everybody
asking the same question.
What about me?
And I think you could
interpret this as a sort of--
an expression of the
narcissism of our times,
that we're so
self-focused, that nature
is treated as kind of a
backdrop to the human drama.
But I think there's another
interpretation of the "what
about me" phenomenon.
And it is that there
is this story needing
to come through every person.
[WAVES CRASHING]
>> The most recent iteration
of it has been that
I'm in the ocean, and there's
a sense that something is
happening pretty drastic.
The most recent thing
is I'm in the water,
and there's all
this debris around,
including bodies of people
that I can't totally see,
but I know that they're there.
And I can see the shoreline.
I'm trying to get back to
the shore in the dream.
>> Hmm.
Hmm.
Wow.
>> And I usually wake up feeling
like I was supposed to be
helping somebody, and yet I was
only trying to get to the shore
myself, because that's--
I'm not a great swimmer,
and I know that in the dream
too, so I'm scared.
>> The mission of the dream
is to get to the shore.
If you could just
use your imagination,
maybe even close your eyes for
a moment, try to describe to me
what it would feel like
to land on that shore.
>> I mean, I think
I'd feel relief.
But just the guilt already
that I feel in the dream,
and when I wake up
feeling guilty for having
dreamt of people's bodies.
I've wrestled for
a long time just
being very harsh with
myself, and I'm not more
caring to people.
To be like, you're not a nice
person, or you're-- so yeah.
There is that feeling,
that juxtaposition
of keeping myself safe but
wanting to help others.
And feeling like I
fail at the latter
at the expense of the former.
So that's probably it, you know?
Or part of it.
And I think, though,
the part that,
in the dream, again, that just--
if it was just me, it would be--
I always just wonder, why would
my mind put those people there?
And I'm almost scolding
myself for having
the dream a little bit.
And lately, I've been
just trying to accept it,
because I've become so used
to this recurring dream.
But it's more now the--
it's recognizing that I've
always been scolding myself,
in a way, for having it at
all, which is-- it's like,
what's wrong up here to
make these messed-up images.
>> I know.
I think one of
the reasons people
really shy away from remembering
their dreams is this very
false notion that we are
somehow perverted, or twisted
for having these darknesses.
But we are surrounded by
death, and debris, and horror.
And that is the condition
that we live in.
>> It's true.
>> And your sensitive
nature is so porous to it.
You drive yourself really
hard to attend to that, right?
And at the same time,
it's like you're
coming into this
awareness of, oh, I
need to be kind to myself.
I need to remember
that I'm good.
And that's how you
will be most of service
to all of that insufficiency,
and horror that
surrounds us all.
And I think the gateway
for you to healing
is kindness to yourself.
Be who you are.
You can just radiate
from that place,
and it will affect
enormous ripples.
>> Oh, thank you.
Yeah, it's interesting how hard
it is to be kind to myself.
>> It's a practice.
Realize that it's coming
to you because something is
ready to come to consciousness.
So it's a validation
in and of itself.
You're ready.
You're ready to move this
forward, or letting go of guilt
around not doing enough.
And that doesn't mean shutting
down or becoming apathetic
to the loss that's around
you, but living somehow
in relationship with
it while still--
and primarily attending to
a kindness towards yourself.
[LIGHT MUSIC]
>> This is ayahuasca.
That's the vine there.
And these leaves are
the leaves of the plant
called chacruna
in the Amazon that
contains dimethyltryptamine.
There are about 70 different
cultures in the Amazon basin
who use ayahuasca, and
who have used ayahuasca--
the vine of souls, or the vine
of the dead, as it's called--
for thousands and
thousands of years.
There's archaeological
evidence of ayahuasca use
going back well over
4,000 years in the Amazon.
And chances are it goes back
much, much further than that.
But what's intriguing
is the way that it
has emerged from the jungle.
This shamanistic plant ally
has emerged from the jungle
and has begun to
affect consciousness
all around the world.
And I do find something almost
supernatural about that.
Just at the time when the
Amazon jungle is in the greatest
threat and danger,
it is finding a voice
to reach the consciousness of
people all around the world.
We are profoundly unconscious
in Western society.
We are taught to focus
on only a limited aspect
of our consciousness.
To define ourselves in
entirely material terms.
To think of ourselves only
as agents of production
and consumption, and not to
consider the vast potential
of being a human
soul in a human body,
to our connections
to the wider cosmos,
the seen and the unseen.
And it's that reunification
with wholeness
that ayahuasca is offering us.
And part of that
reunification with wholeness
involves healing.
That is where-- our science,
our Western materialist science,
wants to explain all healing in
terms of medicines, and pills,
and surgical procedures that
are given to us, whereas really,
the most powerful agency
of healing is the mind.
We need a powerful force
at work by our side
if we are to overcome the
chains that presently wrap up
our consciousness, unlock
it in a particular place.
And I think that ayahuasca does
have the potential to do that.
And if we are to get
back on our true course,
then we need to know
what our true course is.
And part of that comes
from the study of the past,
and from unraveling the past,
and from filling in the missing
chapters in the human story.
>> More possibilities.
>> Yeah.
If we are, as I believe,
a species with amnesia,
then it's important
that we recover
from that state
of forgetfulness,
and remember who we are, and
know what our potential is, so
that we don't have to be
deluded into believing
that our only function is
to produce and consume.
I firmly believe that
if we uncover the past,
we will find a much more
spiritual course of humanity
where we were recognized as
souls and spirits incarnated
in human bodies.
And that this will reveal
itself as the course
we are always meant to be on.
There is a divine
spark within us.
>> It gives me hope,
what you're telling me,
because I too believe
that the tide is changing,
but to hear you say it so
clearly, and inspiring,
and your own journey, and the
candor with which you shared
your own healing, it just
gives me the inspiration.
>> I think we should have hope.
I think it's right
and proper to do so.
And we should remember
that although societies
at the large scale seem
almost impossible for us
to have any influence
over, we can always
have an influence over the
course of our own lives,
and over those who
we impact directly.
And that's where
every one of us should
start the work, in how we
are with our own lives,
and how we are with
those we encounter
in the course of our lives.
And if we can make
that better, if we
can make that better, if we
can make who we are better,
if we can learn from mistakes
we've made in the past
and not repeat
them in the future,
if we have caused pain to others
in the past, at the very least,
we don't have to
continue causing
that pain in the future.
That's within our
sphere of power.
>> As well as pain to ourselves.
We can make those choices,
and we can redirect
the course of our own lives.
We aren't helpless automatons.
We do have the power to redirect
the course of our own lives.
Nobody can take
that away from us.
It's always there.
And I think that if each
and every individual
starts in that area
over which they
do, in fact, have full
control, even if society claims
they don't, it will also result
in a huge shift across society
as a whole.
[INDIGENOUS CHANTING]
[CRYSTAL BOWL MUSIC]
>> It's hard to believe I used
to think trees were just dumb
green things.
Little by little, I'm opening
up to the plant inside me.
A new way of thinking blooms
above me like a headdress,
while the seeds of new
desires and inspiration
sprout in the dark
soil my unconscious.
My awakened plant
intelligence teaches me
that I'm made up of an
infinity of infinities.
I am the quantum
particles and the vacuum
at the center of each atom
around which they spin,
with each bit of me reaching
out for each bit of you,
our consciousness intermingling
in the air, which is itself
alive and breathing.
That space is filled with
the intergalactic dust
of everything and
everyone that ever was.
It's the psychedelic
rainbow tendrils that
connect our dreams and visions.
[INDIGENOUS CHANTING]
[INDIGENOUS SINGING]
[ANIMAL ROARING]
[BIRDS CALLING]
[CHILDREN SINGING]
What's happening is not just
a shared mental realization
about how messed
up our world is.
It's a mass breaking
open of the heart,
coupled with individual
bodily experiences
of profound organic
interconnectedness.
It's spreading person
to person as we
disconnect from the
anxieties and disease
of our current culture
and learn to open up
to the psychic wilderness
that is within us all.
It first started to
stir in the '60s,
but now we're seeing the
full awakening of our plant
intelligence.
She is teaching me
how to listen and look
at the universe around me
with brand new eyes and ears.
To change the way I
breathe, sleep, and eat.
My body is transforming.
Various systems are breaking
down, going through purgings,
a process that sometimes
hurts or makes me sick.
When they are over, I
am stronger than ever.
I feel healthy and focused,
with nagging ailments
and chronic
disabilities dissolving
like sugar in hot tea.
I have more control of
how I react to things,
both physically and mentally.
This awakening makes
us less repressed,
as we let in a more lush
and fertile way of being
and gain direct
experience of the universe
as a living, flowing
being, instead of
as a rigid mechanical clock.
Plant-based gnosis is
ego-free, post-self,
and found in the
everlasting now,
where we can see
and accept ourselves
as constantly remixing and being
remixed in a whirl of flesh,
skin, and bones.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> With the ayahuasca, you
plug into your environment
and to everyone around.
They're really just
plugging into everything.
>> You're plugging with
everyone, but really,
it's also about the space you're
in, like we're saying New York.
I feel New York around us.
>> There's a reason
why everyone is here.
I think it's because it's
ultimately a sacred place.
>> New York City is like the
opposite of a sacred place
to so many people.
It's like the profane,
and sin, and vice.
It also has a lot of beauty, I
know, an art, and everything--
>> Which has been attracted
to the sacred place.
I think it has a
beautiful destiny.
>> What was so powerful for you
was that you went into a space
with intention.
You went in there simply
answering the question,
why am I here?
And for you, whatever
that was, and that
helped frame the experience, and
open yourself up to something
that was bigger.
And people do it
unintentionally.
But I think if you want to bring
your own consciousness into it,
it can make it a much more
potent experience, almost
on demand.
>> Like I was stopping
controlling what I wanted
to have happen, and letting the
sound just make more and more
possibilities.
It was really then
the journey begins.
>> Your microcosm of your world
seems separate, but it matters.
And it matters not
just because I say so.
It matters because
there's evidence--
synchronicity showing
us that there's
evidence that those
actions, those thoughts,
those speech have a response.
>> Right.
It just changes--
>> How that works seems
to be complex and playful,
but the fact that that exists
shows you that your role
and your decisions matters.
You're not isolated.
There is that
interconnectedness,
and we have that
innate sense of what
is happening to that person
or that place is also
happening to me.
And maybe it has to do with
the ultimate connection of us
being the same.
For myself, when I'm
doing that kind of work,
it's a lot of
stepping into unknown,
and stepping into
things that perhaps
are uncomfortable for
me, or into things where
there's perceived judgment.
And that's when something
about that courage and stepping
into something seems
to have a response,
and a recall of what we're
calling synchronicity,
but perhaps is just
the playfulness
of call and response.
>> I like that.
We're now stuck in this
mode of the consume,
and sit, and take in.
And a lot of people, I
think, feel so powerless.
I know I have, and
recently, I haven't been.
And it's a new things to
realize, through in part
realizing that synchronicity--
I'm taking this active role.
It's my life, my creation.
(ECHOING) It's my
life, my creation.
[CRYSTAL BOWL HUMMING]
"Time and again,
human consciousness
fixates and slams the
door on its greatest
gift, the open endedness
of infinite possibility.
As a result, we do not
experience reality, but merely
our concept of it."
José Argüelles.
>> You should be able to just
reach a state of equanimity,
and acceptance, and
kind of surrender,
because if you accept that
the whole thing is a miracle,
and it's a non-dual expression
of a universal consciousness
that's exploring its infinite
capacities in the medium
of space and time, then
it's all going to be OK.
But I definitely,
definitely takes
some work to get to that
point of joyful acceptance
and surrender.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> (SINGING) There are so
many things I want to be.
Things I want to be,
things I want to see.
There are so many
things I want to be.
Things I want to be,
things I want to see.
There are so many
things I want to be.
Things I want to be,
things I want to see.
There are so many
things I want to be.
Things I want to be,
things I want to see.
>> Because all the mental
suffering that people have is
almost always connected to
projections about the future,
or stuff that they're caught
or stuck in from the past.
And actually, in the
present, there really
isn't much of a problem.
Even if you're in
some physical pain,
you can always look
at the flowers,
or make a joke, or something.
So I think what really--
part of our problem
is we get locked into all these
different stories and beliefs
structures.
And you see that happening
in the traditional culture.
Even science and materialism
is kind of story or belief
structure.
But also in the New Age
post-Shamanic world,
there are all these news
stories and beliefs.
And culture has a tendency
to become this crust that
then keeps people
away from just being
present to their innate state of
inspiration and connectedness.
Thinkers like Joseph
Chilton Pearce
have now recognized
that maybe there's
a neurophysiological basis
to initiatory experience,
that actually, the
prefrontal cortex,
or neocortex, which only
developed in the last 40,000
years, certainly develops
fully in a sense,
but actually needs a
cultural shock, or a layer
of culturally-induced experience
to reach its full unfolding,
which is to go beyond
the egoic condition
where we're interested
in our own self-interest,
to have a more transpersonal or
transegoic frame of reference.
So in tribal societies,
obviously, you
couldn't survive if you were
in the immature egoic states,
so the walkabout,
or the vision quest,
or whatever, the
fasting, the ordeal,
would force the
individual to break
through the layer
of the egoic mind
and access this more
universal frame of reference.
So then they would come
back into the tribe,
and they'd be able to
take responsibility
for the whole tribe,
rather than just looking
after their own interests.
And the problem
with our society is
that people haven't gone
through that process,
so they're all pursuing
their own self-interests.
And that, in a sense, is forcing
a planetary disaster, which
is either going to lead to
an initiatory leap mutation,
or we'll see not many
people, or no people
left alive after a while.
>> I know we talked
about this before,
but do you feel that there's
a more likely scenario at this
point?
Do you, when you wake
up in the morning,
feel like, with the reports
coming out that we've already
passed the tipping point in
terms of the melting of the ice
sheets, does that fill
you with the feeling
like, shit, it's too late?
>> It's a miracle
that we exist at all.
It's an extremely
improbable situation.
>> What do you mean?
>> I mean that we've 70 trillion
cells that have aggregated
together into these bodies, and
developed the ability to have
language and consciousness on
a tiny little spinning rock
floating in an infinite
ocean of space.
Highly improbable situation.
So if that happened, a lot
of things might happen.
It might be that there's
infinite dimensions
of psychic and physical
reality, and this whole process
is just a way for us to engineer
a leap from one dimension
or world of conscious
experience to another one
that neither our language
or the present orchestration
of our physiology is able
to even fully understand,
interpret, or articulate.
[LIGHT MUSIC]
We had been painting
all these murals
all over these
rectangular walls,
and I think we live in
a rectangular world,
a rectangular-formatted world.
We look on our
rectangular phones,
and we watch
rectangular screens,
and we live in
rectangular boxes,
and everything is
very structured.
That kind of forces us
to see things in a very--
in a framed way that deviates
from how nature really is.
>> And something else that jumps
out at me that I'm thinking
a lot about is the way in
our industrial landscapes,
nature is still always there.
You can say, like even in the
most industrial of industrial,
you've got these little weeds
or branches sticking out,
and that just draws
my eye right to that.
It's funny, at Greenpoint--
it's called Greenpoint--
there isn't too much green.
But it is.
It's still nature.
This is a reminder that
all of this is nature.
All those blocks, all that
wood, everything we build.
>> Yeah.
>> I see what feels
like a symbol,
like a symbolic language here.
And it makes me think
of your larger pieces
with these amazing mandalas.
I'm just wondering where
that inspiration came from,
to put those in these
huge street art pieces.
>> The mandala itself, the
circle can be represented--
is represented in
various cultures,
and it's represented
throughout the natural world.
And the planet's a sphere,
so the planet is a mandala,
is a natural mandala in itself.
>> So that's one of the
things I love about your work,
is that the huge murals--
I'll be walking by them,
and I'm sure this happens
to other people too,
lost in your thoughts,
lost in what you're
supposed to be doing later,
and all the millions of tasks.
And then, boom, I'm pulled
back into the present.
And it's just
like, what is this?
Let me experience it.
And I feel like that's one
of the beauties of mural art,
or things that happen
in the everyday
that you're not expecting
to see, necessarily,
art of that magnitude.
I'm not in a gallery
where I set myself
for those kind of expectations.
Especially the one on the
jail out in Brooklyn Detention
Center, I think it's called.
>> There is a lot of
ironies with that project.
And there's
definitely-- certainly
a dichotomy between
the message that we
were trying to
represent, and the things
that we were trying to share.
And we created
our own mandalas--
a series of mandalas for
that wall that represented
all these different ideas.
And there are keys falling,
and the keys are another--
to have keys placed on a
wall on a jail facility,
there's obviously a lot
of connotations to that,
because it's about
access, and it's
about the doors that are either
locked to protect something
of value, or are locked to
keep people out and perpetuate
social injustices.
Having participated in
activism, I found naturally
my own route was to go
introspective and spiritual
to mural-making.
Some people despise street art.
Some people despise murals.
Some people despise public art.
And not everybody appreciates
what art represents.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
"The artist's task is to
save the soul of mankind,
and anything less is a
dithering while Rome burns.
If artists cannot find the way,
then the way cannot be found."
Terence McKenna.
Socrates, Walt Whitman,
Virginia Woolf, Roberta Flack,
The Police and Saul Williams,
the saints and poets,
rock-and-roll degenerates
and hip hop masters
of zen-like lyrical flows,
whether conscious of it
or not, are all purveyors of
a universal intelligence--
gnosis, the unspoken
ancient wisdom of plants.
They tuned into the
voice deep within us
and received direct downloads
from the fertile wildness
of life.
In the everlasting
now of synchronicity,
they are forever still
present, still vital,
rooting us on and
communicating to those
with ears enough to hear and
hearts open enough to see.
[RAINFALL]
[GENTLE MUSIC]
>> Jung recognized that in
the moment of their greatest
creative expression, the artist
is an unconscious vehicle
for something beyond themselves.
And at these times, their pen
carries the unspoken voice
of the collective
whole of their culture.
And like a medium or an
indigenous healer, what goes
through them at this time--
>> You've lived through a
certain passage in your life,
and now you're on
a different level.
Now you can see different
things as being in part--
>> --matching that with being,
and that we're all sentiences
that are part of the
same interconnected web.
That we're one organism.
That planet Earth is
the larger mandala.
And that we're all having--
>> --enabling.
I think it's a current that's
running through everything,
and if you bring your
presence to that,
it doesn't have to be dirty,
or something you need more of.
You just recognize, oh,
this is a form of energy
that is part of my being,
part of the collective--
>> --the mass will be reached.
It just has to be enough people
in society who are thinking
in new ways for change to come.
And that's what's needed now.
[WATER LAPPING]
[PSYCHEDELIC ROCK MUSIC]
>> The universe is a puzzle.
Life is a problem to be solved.
It's conundrum.
It's not what it appears to be.
There are doors.
There are locks and keys.
There are levels.
And if you get it
right somehow, you
give way to something
extremely unexpected.
>> I have noticed
synchronicity my whole life.
And there was definitely
a little bit of ridicule
that happened.
When you're little, it was like,
you're crazy, that's not true.
I believe, before you
come into this life,
you do set an intention.
So when you start to
notice synchronicity,
it's just reconnecting with
that original intention,
because there are forces in
this realm that distract you
from it.
So I always noticed it.
And then about two
years ago, I had
more of a spiritual
awakening, so now I
understand more of what it is.
So right now, you
can all see my face.
I can't see my own face.
So what I think is that the
world that I see, just like I
would need a mirror to see
my physical appearance,
I need all of you to be a
mirror for my consciousness.
>> Synchronicity is a connector.
And it's showing that
we're all connected.
And for me, the
beauty of that has
been to increase what
I call sync awareness.
So I try to be aware
of synchronicities
as they happen, and I try to
use social media to put them
back out there and
talk about them,
because I've found that the
more you put it out there,
the more it amplifies
in your life.
The act of talking
about synchronicity
seems to spin off
more synchronicities.
I am convinced 100%
that in this room,
we'll have conversations, we'll
talk about our synchronicities,
and that it's going to
happen where people are going
to leave this room and have
each other's synchronicities,
and see the same things that
someone else has been talking
about, or have dreams
with certain images in it.
It will happen.
>> My record that actually
brought me to meet Diana is
called reflector.
So we share that
belief in the fact
that what you are looking
at, or what you are noticing,
is yourself.
The best synchronicity
I can experience
is my ability to be in
sync with other people.
There is a whole society,
culture that I live in,
that we are not in sync.
>> Creativity is like the
backbone to the synchronicity,
because we're all just
swimming in it all the time.
You just have to take the time
to not be distracted, or focus
to not be distracted
enough to flow with it.
And it screams at you, like--
a metaphor that I use all
the time, because I ride--
cycle the city.
And when you go the wrong
way up a one-way street,
you feel the resistance.
It's very clear.
And there's no water there, but
I can feel it, like on my body,
I feel pressure.
Not just the intensity of
riding in the situation.
And we're all affecting
each other in that way.
It's making more
subtle levels, and--
visually, or physically,
through certain senses.
But then there's
that visceral sense
where, oh, there's
a connection here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm doing an angel
reading for you.
And like I said, I channel, so
I'm going to see who's here.
And let's see.
Oh, Uriel is here.
Angel of wisdom.
And is here with such
a delighted voice.
That's beautiful.
Mm.
Oh, Raphael's here.
Ah, he's the one that
leads the healers.
Are you familiar
with the angels?
>> A little bit, yeah.
>> OK.
OK, great.
So what is your focus
for our reading today?
>> I feel like I've been passing
through some kind of stage
of initiation, and that now,
there's a journey ahead of me
that feels like it's
starting to reveal itself,
and I would just like more
clarity about what that is.
What I should do for it.
>> What I'm going to do is I'm
going to take out these cards.
These are angel cards.
And I want you to shuffle
them if you want, mix them up
however feels right to you.
Oh, 10 of air.
So 10 of air, the end of
a difficult situation.
Embrace the change and expect
things to get better now.
Recovering from an addiction.
Air is the element of change.
It's shape-shifting.
A breeze that blows
and makes things safer.
>> It was really powerful
just getting this card.
I did recover from
an alcohol addiction.
And I still consider
myself in recovery
from that in a certain way.
It's like changing.
Not going to drink,
but I'm going
to use maybe plant medicines
in a sacred way, which I've
been doing, which is something
which was, at first, out
of alignment with
my initial recovery
path, which was
to just stay sober
in this very strict sense.
So now, I do want to
explore my consciousness
and heal from some
of that, and that's
OK to use these other
guides and sacraments.
>> This is the perfect time
to let people know what
your dreams truly are.
Those dreams exist
not just to be
about making something happen,
but about making it happen.
>> Sometimes, through these
revelations and things like
that, but then it's really about
building things day to day,
and connecting with people, and
doing the work that needs to be
done.
I'm finding that's
super satisfying, yeah.
>> It's really about building
a culture that's sustainable.
That's a big hit for you.
It's about looking at
your neighbor like a kin.
>> Like family kin.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
They're closing it
with one more thought.
It's not just talk.
It's walk.
>> Right.
"We sense that normal
isn't coming back.
That we're being born into a new
normal, a new kind of society,
a new relationship to the
Earth, a new experience
of being human."
Charles Eisenstein.
What I've come to realize
is that each one of us
is the center of
our own universe.
Each one of us is the
star of the movie.
The camera eye follows
us around as we
find glory in our
suffering, not because
of some outdated
romanticized notion,
but because of the
fierce grace of knowing
that we're at the
beginning of the end,
and the end of the beginning.
It is our blessing and
burden that in this new time
of global connection
and creation,
everyday people are being
called to a place which
until now has only been
glimpsed by poets and artists--
a shimmering shore where dark
unknowable objects are pulled
from the sea and made real.
A place fertile with new
reality in which time
moves in circles and loops
instead of in a straight line,
and thoughts are fractals
that simultaneously fall apart
and come back together again.
In this new time,
we are all artists,
we are all seers learning to
share with our hearts what
was once invisible.
>> Oh, great spirit whose voice
I hear in the wind, hear me.
I'm small and weak.
I need your strength and wisdom.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> (SINGING) You saw
a future in a flash.
Now that concern becomes a trap.
What it does is justify
the misery you live inside.
The good, the bad that you
perceive, obtaining things
externally.
You were told and you believed.
You must sow before you reap.
Kill the hope till
there's nothing left.
You are nothing but the
love that gives you breath.
Kill the hope.
Kill your scheme.
This is nothing but a dream.
These limitations,
black and white,
keep you turning in your night.
You'll be lost, you'll be blind
until you turn on the light.
Turn on the light.
Kill the hope till
there's nothing left.
You are nothing but the
love that gives you breath.
Kill the hope.
Kill your scheme.
This is nothing but a dream.
It's your mountain.
No one sees it but you, but you.
No one sees it.
No one sees it but you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> (SINGING) Ooh.
Ooh.
There are so many
things I want to be.
Things I want to be.
There are so many
things I want to see.
Things I want to see.
There are so many
things I want to be.
Things I want to be.
There are so many
things I want to see.
Things I want to see.
Da-da-dee, da-da-dee,
you want to be.
You're gonna set yourself free.
Da-da-dee, da-da-dee,
you want to be.
You're gonna set yourself free.
You've got your one
life in front of you.
Don't waste your time on--